-: Welcome back.
In this section we are going to learn
a few important Kubernetes concepts
which are required for our application deployments
on the Kubernetes clusters.
So in our previous lectures,
we have implemented all these things
like a MySQL deployment,
where we have the MySQL database,
and from that we have mounted the persistent storage
of Elastic Block Store from AWS,
with all these Kubernetes concepts
like storage classes,
PersistentVolumeClaim,
config maps, deployments,
environmental variables, volumes, volume mounts,
all these things, okay?
So now what we are going to do is,
we have completed the underlying part here,
but we also need to focus on our application
we are deploying here.
So first thing is, Secrets.
So whatever the DB password,
whatever we have provided for this application,
why can't we send it in the encrypted format?
So for that purpose we are going to use Secrets.
The same we can apply for the MySQL root password
environmental variable in deployment.
So the next thing is, initialization containers.
So these are nothing, but we have seen one issue related to,
before the MySQL container started,
the application got started
and then one more time it restarted,
it didn't wait for the MySQL service to come up.
So to ensure that MySQL container comes up
and then starts the application,
we can implement initialization containers.
So in addition to that, we can implement liveness
and then readiness probes of our application,
so that the traffic can be allowed to this respective port
only once the liveness
and then readiness probes are successful.
So those we need to implement for our application.
In addition to that,
we can even implement requests and limits
for our application ports.
Which means how much CPU,
how much memory in the Kubernetes cluster
our respective application ports should be taking.
We can request those things
and then also put a hard limit for that using limits.
In addition to that,
if we have multiple versions of our application
or if we want to deploy in the CME case cluster
you have staging and then development
and then QA environments.
So you can even create namespaces separately
for dev, QA, staging, and then deploy the same application
and the same version inside those separate namespaces.
So like this, you can use namespaces
to differentiate your environments or in various reasons
or even for namespaces,
like you can allocate for dev environment,
my Kubernetes cluster.
This much resources only should be allocated
for this namespace, this much CPU,
and then this much memory.
So all those things we can implement
and those are very important for the applications
we are going to deploy on Kubernetes cluster.
So these things we are going to implement.
Now, so if you go here,
in 05 Kubernetes,
Important Concepts for Application Deployments.
So we are going to look into Kubernetes Secrets,
initialization containers,
liveness and readiness probes,
and requests and limits,
and then namespaces in five sections now.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.